hey
[Music]
ah
me
[Music]
hey
well good morning humanity
it is june 6 2022 and his favorite time
of the week because it's mondays with
bev van paul and
hi everybody my name is paul hello good
morning this is bev hey babe i'm trying
to get these ear things in here so i
don't look like i'm a butterfly or
something anyway you all figured
look at me
all right hey everybody we have an
awesome show
awesome yes because we are dealing with
the national geographic cover
called the power of touch
oh my god i know oh my god where do we
even start
oh
well we start with that little i don't
know if you can see it there it says
research repeat reveals
how our connections with others keep us
healthy
and there's pages upon pages upon pages
about how important touch is to health
and humanity humanity don't you love
that
what have we been talking about for
years continuously is connected
humanity oh my gosh so we wanted to
share this article
and first of all those few key words
there that are really important uh
because we have research from dr
stevenson and dr gary schwartz that say
the same thing same thing yes
so how important this touch is
let's start with that you know as they
go on to later we'll talk about that it
goes into how they're creating touch for
prosthetics and things like that that's
amazing because touch is important from
the time you're born
they say kangaroo touch they say uh the
who in africa found that kangaroo care
is even more effective when it's nearly
continuous and starts after birth that
they say in this article that touch is
the first sense when we come into this
yes absolutely right i mean
think about it
the moment you're born yes you're being
held
and touch dr kenneth stevenson told us
is the important it happens is the last
sense we have when we die she worked
with death and dying patients
so
how important from birth to death at
what they call kangaroo touch so let's
share how can a dr kenneth stevenson
show that i know
and
we got to say this was a totally
allopathically trained
phd doctor in doing research for
pharmaceutical companies i mean she knew
nothing about complementary or
alternative and this is what she found
yeah beyond phd she had an md medical
doctor a medical doctor i mean which
they believe is higher than phd but
of course
okay so so biotech so if you notice the
yellow there so biotouch is related with
all the things as far as centering or
meditation or reading or unruffling a
skin-to-skin contact always with
biotouch and always with kangaroo touch
no levels no hierarchy there's none of
that with kangaroo touch with a mother
touching a child
and there's none with
with biotouch and she related it to some
of the other techniques out there that
she researched online reiki therapeutic
touch not that nothing that all these
things are effective but the importance
of touch is what we're trying to show
here right and not off the body right
right right oh that that can when you
think about the the kangaroo touch
what happens if if your child
is hurting the fur they don't even think
about it
it's so innate in us that nurturing i
don't care if you are male or female
it's all within all of us that ability
to care for for compassion and to just
want to
help some something mother picks up that
baby instantly and starts to soothe it
and holds it right so yeah it's it's in
all of us already it's who we are
which is the beauty of biotouch biotouch
meets us with who we are in the present
moment you don't have to go get it you
don't have to develop it right you don't
have to be initiated into it the fact
that you were born
you're a citizen of the planet yes
and you can help humanity heal and if
there's ever a time on the planet when
it's needed
it's now
now
and biotouch is all set up for this well
and let me share a little more about the
research that gary found here we always
talk about
his the party talks about love but he
said uh that
that the data he did this
research with a bunch of freshman
psychology students and he said the data
clearly showed that whereas
non-contact
us
he did healing work with people
non-contact had a minimal effect cloth
contact where you touched through the
clothing had a moderate effect it was
direct skin contact that showed the
greatest effect in terms of reducing
reported pain
following a procedure
wow these differences were highly
statistically significant in a word
direct physical touch
matter
so the question he asks is why
well is the reason primary phys
physiological or is it psychological or
is it possibly electromagnetic effects
associated with direct physical contact
or operating
and what his hypothesis and he actually
goes into it maureen called the healing
experiments uh his hypothesis is that
all three are probably involved in the
process of biotouch physiological
psychological well we say it's a
holistic technique right yes all of the
above
but he said the second lesson is
somewhat deeper and frankly more
inspiring the kind of love that biotouch
fosters is a high level of love
including empathy compassion caring
gentleness protection safety warmth
gratitude and appreciation as you
explore deborah's gracious and grateful
book my wish is that you become filled
as i did with the wonder and promise
that biotouch offers all of us our loved
ones the greater humanity and nature
itself wow
oh my gosh
there it is here it is
now it's on national geographic yes
but here's the thing that we've been
saying
you don't have to go find it because
we've been here
you established this 30-something years
ago we have this great foundation that's
holding this for everybody
trying to get the word out for you
that there's something for you already
this this ability to take care of and to
help someone everybody in your life we
already have it it's already back yes
and and it came back now because as you
were saying this is a very pivotal
critical point in the history of
humanity and
this
new newness that's uh upon us and our in
our thinking and our changing the way
that we're living and thinking about how
we want to live now
biotouch is aubrey it's clean
it's clear
it's
for all of us i don't know how else to
say it
anymore help me here
help us people
really
the and the way to help is you take
those two fingers and you reach out and
you touch someone very lightly on the
skin on the skin you know that that's
how simple it is you know i'm doing a
podcast with uh
jane hogan health uh
in a couple of weeks and what's going to
be great about that is i'm going to be
able to teach people to reach out and
touch right over the airwaves
it's that simple you've done that before
yes yeah and it's so simple you know i'm
reminded remember uh i don't know if you
were even here we did this uh
presentation it was at the zoo and it
was all it was a volunteer appreciation
day and there were hundreds and hundreds
of people there and they had me talk
and there's hundreds of people there and
everybody's yacking away and i get up
there and i and i say all right i want
everybody to take two fingers and i want
you to reach over and touch somebody
next to you
silence moment of silence i know you
didn't have to do anything even people
that were watching it said oh my god
that was so powerful that for that
moment that they reached over and
touched someone on the face on the
shoulder on the arm there was a moment
of silence the connection had been made
through touch
you know you know what's interesting
about that is that touch what happens
when we touch it's almost like the body
takes a breath and says oh
this is life
biotouch is about this rhythm of life
that is runs through all of us and when
we practice biotouch we are
like connecting to that essence of all
of life as gary says
nature we are part of nature on this
planet
we can understand that come on
let's let's be one with nature
you know we are human beings we can now
be in the presence with another human
through touch
more of the article here which is very
interesting so they spend a lot of time
going into the power of touch and what
it does in the brain and the connections
so what they've created now
is they're creating prosthetics
especially for people that don't have
arms or hands
and they're creating the ability that
in the fingertips that you put it with
the prosthetic is creating messages that
go to those parts of the brain that they
found that relate to touch
okay
and the the discussion they have with
people who have tried it is they feel
whole
they feel connected again
yeah because there's this power in the
hands that they're finding out the power
of touch the fingers the hands
creates something in the brain
that helps us understand that we're part
of humanity you know we've mentioned
this before and actually
shown some pictures in other shows but
if you will look at some of the ancient
pictures some of the older art you know
the the uh artists and the the
sculptures and and people from the you
know
long ago periods you will see
that
they paint
pictures of angels and great teachers
and great
doing this
you know either reaching out or saying
here i am or whatever this is always
been
this is a message for us that is back
now it's time i wonder if i have that
photos here oh i know it's beautiful
well there's people there's actual
people
but yes and um
but yeah some of these pictures and
sculptures that we have seen oh
it's been around a while
so here's something very interesting
that excites me a lot you know people
are like
we always get the question well i don't
have anybody here you know or i'm locked
down i don't have anybody to talk to i'm
just doing the zoom you know oh the
metaverse you know that's just you know
i don't want to deal with it but i get
really excited about all this technology
only because
i got no choice it's here i know no we
better all get used to it and so
it might be a different generation that
it'll be part of their life but i want
to be part of the building of bringing
touch into that and so if they're
finding not only that a prosthetic can
now create messages to that person
sensation
they're also creating these gloves i i
actually saw in the commercial where
they have this hug
thing and so you zoom with somebody and
you put on this shirt yes the two
brothers two different countries
oh my gosh that is amazing yeah right
and so if they're finding in the brain
what that's triggering you know then
biotouch is positioning itself to be
part of this movement oh yes well why
not it's here it's here for now it is
it's part of the unfolding of what's
coming for us in in the community of
what we call
health
and it's going to play a huge part i
have no doubt because if national
geographic is right the power of touch
then
it's coming yes it's here so for all of
us who still have someone reach out and
touch
what we said during the pandemic is if
you don't have someone
do the points but think of somebody
doing it to you we've got to keep the
relationship going right and if that
relationship is because we're thousands
of miles away and all we have are these
these zoom meetings but we now can
create the sense that we're coming
together
and pretty soon we'll find out if it's
just really a hologram to begin with if
you believe in the matrix all i have to
do is blink my eyes and i could be
worried not to take that pill yeah i
mean there were people on this planet
back in the 20s and 40s who actually
could
take their body and move it to another
place and meet somebody absolutely casey
swedenborg
all of these amazing
so
you're talking about
the true con we talk about the
connection between us
time space
distance cannot break the connection
between two people
so if you are thinking about that person
doing bio touch with you
on your body and then you do it
it is it's real
it's a connection yes yeah and so if
we're if we're then triggering
senses in our in our brain that
recognizes it as touch
well then it becomes easy you know i can
easily reach out through this screen
touch that two points of the greeting
and healing will begin to happen and
you'll sense that i'm touching you i
mean we do all of our board meetings we
started doing the greeting we did a a
we break up into rooms and we actually
touch one another through the screen
crazy ass but
it seems to work so so i'm excited you
know that we're we're sort of again in
the cutting edge i remember doing the
first website when you only had a page
we were there i know and here it is 35
years later and we're still we have been
told by some really big guns that we
have brought in like guys you already
ahead of the game right so something is
going on with biotouch because it we're
the custodians it has to be kept
sacred and the integrity held
and the truth of it the the the love
part of it has to continue that's our
job
for you
for for
everybody in the world to be able to use
it that's what we're doing here every
monday so again the greeting take the
two fingers of your dominant hand
all right
touch
feel it on yourself you've got somebody
next to you that much better feel that
breast bone right in the center of your
chest there
follow it down follow it down and all of
a sudden drops off into some soft tissue
some people say it's softer than others
but you know whatever you want yeah yeah
hold there six to eight seconds
take that same dominant hand
feel behind your neck lean your head
forward there's a big bone that pops out
go to the left of that an inch to an
inch and a half and touch lightly like a
butterfly again it's that light touch
that's registered in the body
that's the ingredient
you've started something amazing yes
that's simple we can't remind you how
amazing this is enough time which is
what we try to do every monday i know
so
you know and so we have other ways to
learn it too you can go online download
the first 10 pages which has that
greeting with it
you know and a video has a link to it
showing you how to do how to do it
we have a class coming up and our next
class is in
july july 19th
that's a one day training we take you
through the whole program and we
actually practice the points watching
one another doing it
and then we have an our next workshop
coming up with a julia dara
and uh she is going to talk to us about
tennis elbow
and then we will teach you the points on
how to address tennis elbow so it's all
quite simple i know to do bio touch you
know it's not this huge long drawn out
process that you have to take years to
do and you don't need anybody else you
know once you touch you're affected i i
think it's about you really believing
that you can you have it within yourself
to help someone else
because so much of our programming is
oh i can't
i don't have what it takes i don't have
this i don't have i don't have yes you
do you have it and you've always had it
right there inside of you and if you
want to have a belief in it
do it just do it have no expectations it
ain't gonna kill you it ain't gonna cost
you anything it's not gonna hurt anybody
just see right there right there we're
we're bucking the whole system here
oh yeah but
for writing this book right i just got
contacted lady in
england just read it and wants to learn
how to do it hey i just did a class a
certification class uh one-on-one with
with uh our our newest graduate um
nova and then she she read that book she
goes that is literally the best book i
have ever read it had everything in it i
cried i laughed and it gave me such
incredible hope there you go bio touch
so we're here bringing hope to the
planet just reach out in touch
thanks bab thank you paul thank you all
check out the national geographic if you
want to know more about the power of
touch or contact us if you want to know
more about the project right the power
of touch read deborah's book right and
uh we'll see you all next monday well
have a great week
[Music]
i can feel the pain
and sunshine or rain
so it's not caused
by the weather
but it doesn't hurt that much
after i feel your loving touch
and we spent some time
together
you take my pain away
each and every day
you're an angel from heaven
on
your body
helps me heal so much
and i get better as time
goes
by
[Music]
you take my pain away